---
layout: assignment-two-column
title: Final Project
description: Final Project
abbreviation: HW 3
type: homework
ordering: 4
due_date: 2021-12-10
draft: 0
---

## I. Introduction
For your final assignment in this class, we want to push you to think about how you might want to contribute to a just, technologically-mediated future. You can think about this very broadly. For instance:

{:.blockquote-no-margin}
> * Writing a piece of science fiction that explores the social / ethical implications of a particular socio-technical phenomenon.
> * Prototyping an alternative platform/app that instantiates a set of ethical and political commitments
> * Designing a set of interactive tools / activities / games to help people learn more about a social or ethical challenge.
> * Creating a magazine or online journal of critical socio-techical thought
> * Organizing a career fair that highlights a different set of possible career trajectories
> * Making a documentary film
> * Hosting a podcast series
> * And more! We've curated a list of resources [here](../resources) that can give you some ideas. 

You may work individually or in groups of no more than three people. For those of you who are interested in continuing to pursue your project next quarter, we have some budget for you to instantiate your idea, and we can guide you via the [Computing, Ethics, & Society Working Group](/fall2021/working-group/) during the winter and spring quarters.

## II. Format
Final submission of the project will include:

1. A presentable prototype or writing piece (whether it’s a chapter, podcast, interactive demo, video, etc.)
2. A proposal document (3-page max, single-spaced), considering the project guidelines below.

About 2/3 of your effort should dedicated to creating the prototype, and the other 1/3 should be dedicated to the project proposal (which articulates your theory of change). 

## III. Prototype Guidelines
Your prototype should give us a sense of what you hope to create. This could be a sample story, module, podcast, presentation, etc. Or, if you're planning to build an app, website, or game, it could be a prototype of your vision. 

We want you to spend some time creating something concrete, to help us understand what you are envisioning, and how it might function to achive a particular ethical / social goal.

## IV. Proposal Guidelines
Your 3-page project proposal must address the following:

### 1. Background
Give a brief overview of your project and what led you to it. Connect with readings from the course. Who are the people you’re intending to support with your project? Why?

### 2. Objectives
Who is the audience? Why? What should they learn from your project?  What would a successful project look like beyond the prototype?

### 3. Methodology
How does your project help your audience reach your goal? Include background research on whether this method or similar methods have been employed before. What are the pros and cons, what makes this different?

### 4. Positionality
Reflect on your position as designer(s) of this project. In what ways are you an insider to your audience’s needs? In what ways are you an outsider?

### 5. Next Steps
If you were to implement this project, what are your next steps in terms of research:
* Name 3 people you would contact? Who would you see yourself collaborating with / learning from? 
* How will you reach out to the people who really understand the context you’re studying and who are most impacted by the technology to make sure you understand their needs?
* How will you test your prototype to ensure you’re delivering the message / idea / topic effectively (think back to what you defined as success in your objectives)?

## V. What to Turn In
1. Project check-in (due before the last class on Thursday, 12/02)
2. Your paper (due 12/10 at midnight)